Update episode 04 citation (#6)
esciencecenter-digital-skills/lesson-FAIR-software: _episodes/04-citation.md

exercises: 0
questions:
- "Why explicitly enable software citation?"
- "How to make a software citable?"
objectives:
- "Create a citation.cff file"
- "Publish software on Zenodo"
keypoints:
- "We can publish software without publishing research results."
---

> ## Recommendation 4
>
> Enable citation of the software
{: .callout}
![recommendation4]({{ page.root }}/fig/recommendation4.png)

## Why making a software citable is important

Citation helps software developers be recognized for their work.
Additionally, a citation is an integral part of scientific accountability and reproducibility.

However, citing software is inherently more difficult than citing a paper.
To an outsider especially, even seemingly trivial things such as identifying
who should be recognized as an author can be difficult. It is therefore convenient

> when software developers themselves provide the information necessary to enable citation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
when software developers themselves provide the information necessary to cite.
```

## A citation file

By adding a machine-readable citation file ``CITATION.cff`` to your code base,
you can define how the software should be cited.

> The [CodeMeta](https://codemeta.github.io/) standard and the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [CodeMeta](https://codemeta.github.io/) metadata schema and the
```
CodeMeta is not a standard

[Citation File Format](https://citation-file-format.github.io/) are specifically
designed to enable citation. For either one, you write a plain text file with
citation metadata, which you then distribute with your software.

> ## Initialize your citation file
>
> We can use the tool [cffinit](https://citation-file-format.github.io/cff-initializer-javascript/)
> to initialize the ``CITATION.cff``.
{: .callout}

> ## Publish your code in zenodo
>
> Browse to [Zenodo](https://sandbox.zenodo.org/) and archive a snapshot of
> your repository created in the lesson
> [Use a publicly accessible repository with version control]({{ page.root }}{% link _episodes/01-version-control.md %}).
>
> > ## Solution
> >
> > Follow the instructions
> > on the [GitHub guides page](https://guides.github.com/activities/citable-code/#repository).
> {: .solution}
{: .challenge}

## A persistent identifier

> Software is continuously improving, and ideally when someone uses your software,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Software is continuously evolving, and ideally when someone uses your software,
```
It was originally evolving and I think by mistake ended up being involving 🤣

they cite the exact version of the software they use. To facilitate that,

> you can make a **persistent identifier** (DOI, URN, ARK, etc) for a snapshot of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you can make a **persistent identifier**
([Digital Object Identifier or DOI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier),
[Uniform Resource Name or URN](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uniform_Resource_Name),
[Archival Resource Key or ARK](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Archival_Resource_Key),
etc) for a snapshot of
```

your software, so that the identifier will continue to resolve to exactly

> that version for the foreseeable future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that version in the future.
```

> ## Archiving services
>
> There are several archiving services that help you create such an identifier,

> > either using the push of a button, or automatically, for example each time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> either semi-automatically, or in a fully automated manner, for example, each time
```
